TITLE
=====
Confide — swap tokenized stocks for stablecoins on Solana, without publishing the size


DESCRIPTION
===========
A real Solana account reports a balance of zero. It holds 173,000 shares of tokenized stock.

On 17 September the SEC gave tokenized stock five years of relief — and set the conditions: AMM-executed trading only, every fill's size, time and direction published within ten minutes, a Tier 1 name capped at 0.25% of average daily volume. Block trades have always settled away from that tape. Nobody had built the block. Confide settles it off the tape, and is not a venue, so the exemption neither covers it nor is needed.

▶ Decode the trades in a browser: https://psyto.github.io/confide/
▶ Code, Apache-2.0: https://github.com/psyto/confide

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

CHAPTERS

0:00 This account
0:10 And nobody has been allowed one
0:28 Confide
0:43 The trade
0:57 Why the door is shut
1:18 Why now
1:36 So the first trade is an issuance
1:45 The gate, both ways
1:57 Why not just use an exchange
2:11 What I got wrong, and what you can run

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

THE MEASUREMENT NOBODY HAD MADE

All 1,992 tokenized-equity mints on Solana, from three unrelated issuers, run Token-2022 with confidential transfers ON and the auditor key EMPTY. Every mint checked, not sampled.

They did not miss it. The same 1,992 carry permanentDelegate, pausableConfig and a transfer hook — the issuer can freeze a transfer, seize a holder's tokens, run their own code. Token-2022's only disclosure model is mint-wide: one auditor key, reading every transfer made while it is set, scoped to nobody. Everybody readable, or nobody. So every issuer left it empty.

Then the half nobody counted: has anybody USED it? 469,477 live token accounts across Apple, NVIDIA, SpaceX, Anthropic and AMC. TWO have configured a confidential account, both on NVDAx. ZERO are approved — neither can receive one until the issuer signs, and no issuer has.

Not only equities: PYUSD and USDG land on the identical configuration; USDC cannot do it at all.

WHICH MAKES THE FIRST TRADE AN ISSUANCE

The party who can open a confidential account is one of the two parties to the trade — so the first trade through that gate is not a swap between two holders. It is an issuance.

On devnet today: an issuer allocates 20,000 shares against $3,500,000 of stablecoin. Sent before the issuer had signed for the account, the chain REFUSED it — Custom(24), "Account not approved for confidential transfers". One instruction later, the same transaction SETTLED.

Then between two strangers sharing nothing but public keys: 50,000 shares against $8,750,000, one transaction. Neither published the size, the price it implies, or that they held anything. All four accounts still report zero.

WHAT CONFIDE ACTUALLY DOES

Delivery versus payment is what a clearing house exists for: neither side goes first, so finance inserts a central counterparty, margin and a day of lag. A Solana transaction is all-or-nothing, so the transaction IS the clearing house. Confide holds nobody's assets.

The work is everything around that. Confidential transfers need zero-knowledge proofs too large for a transaction, so they are verified into context accounts first and cited by address; on a fee-charging mint that leg takes a different instruction and five proofs instead of three, one staged through a record account. Before signing, each side decrypts the other's amount out of the verified context, rebuilds the transaction and compares it byte for byte.

WHY NOT AN EXCHANGE, AND WHAT I GOT WRONG

You cannot use one. A pool's reserves are public state and a trade moves them by exactly the amount traded — subtract two states and you have the size, whatever the token can do. It has to be two parties, directly, and the SEC wrote the same down: the relief covers AMM-executed trading only.

I also called one of these checks the safety step. A review found it was signing an object it had never compared to the one it showed you. That rebuild-and-compare is the fix, and it caught a second bug on its first run. Every review is committed under docs/reviews/.

GO AND DO IT YOURSELF

A standing devnet issuer is gated exactly as all 1,992 are, its approval key published. So you can open a confidential position and hold something the chain reports as zero:

  git clone https://github.com/psyto/confide
  ./scripts/testbed-join.sh

Needs the Solana CLI, Rust and some devnet SOL.

WHAT IS NOT BUILT

The gate on a real mint: the demo's issuer is a devnet testbed whose approval key is mine. Matching is unsolved — settlement is done, finding the counterparty is not, and that is the exchange definition at Rule 3b-16, so it stays off. Price is agreed off chain. No pilot, no user, no issuer asked.

Every figure came off the chain and one command reproduces each. Devnet resets; ./scripts/healthcheck.sh re-checks them.

BUILT ON

Original work except where declared: aperture-core and aperture-receipts (Apache-2.0, my pre-existing engine) and spl-token-2022-interface. The swap, the seizure program, the proofs, the equity layer and the demo are new.
