Every tokenized stock on Solana ships confidential balances.

All 1,992 of them.

I counted the accounts actually using one.

Zero.

━━━

330,266 live token accounts across Apple, NVIDIA, SpaceX and Anthropic, and not one is configured for confidential transfers. Not few — zero.

The reason is one field. `autoApproveNewAccounts` is false on 1,992 of 1,992, so a confidential account cannot exist until the issuer signs for it. None has. The feature is shipped, gated, and unused.

And it is not an equities story. USDC and USDT cannot move confidentially at all. PYUSD and USDG can — and land on the identical configuration: gate shut, auditor slot empty, the same key holding confidential authority on both. PayPal's dollar ships the same unusable privacy feature behind the same door.

━━━

I spent a month building a loan against those positions and hit the gate every time: a loan needs somebody to hold the collateral, and that somebody needs an account no issuer will approve.

A trade needs nobody. Both legs go in one transaction, so either both settle or neither does — Solana's atomicity where a clearing house would be.

So it runs. 50,000 shares against $8,750,000, one transaction, delivery against payment. Every account involved still reports a public balance of 0. Nobody watching learns the size or the price it implies.

Why not just use an exchange? You cannot. A pool's reserves are public and a trade moves them by exactly the amount traded, so anything settled against a pool publishes the size — whatever the token can do. It has to be two parties, directly.

━━━

There is a standing issuer on devnet whose gate is shut exactly as all 1,992 are, and I published the key that opens it. Two minutes:

git clone https://github.com/psyto/confide
./scripts/testbed-join.sh

330,266 live accounts have never done that.

━━━

Nobody outside my own repository has used any of it. No pilot, no issuer asked, traction is zero and I would rather say so than have you find it.

Everything above came off the chain and one command reproduces each. Kamino's refusal to take a confidential deposit is correct underwriting, not an oversight — I quote their own pinned source and concede it before saying anything about the gap.

If I have read that source wrong, or the count is wrong, I would much rather hear it from you than from a judge.

psyto.github.io/confide
